Deriving an Agile estimate.
Now in this section we'll discuss some of the tools and
techniques used in deriving an Agile estimate.
Estimating in ideal days.
The notion of ideal time is fully embraced in the Agile approach.
And we learned that in the previous modules.
You can apply what you learned by determining ideal time for user stories.
For early estimates,
using ideal days may be a good unit of measure for Agile projects.
Also, using a WBS, as we discussed before,
Work Breakdown Structure, may also be very useful.
And in a WBS we might want to use ideal hours that
we talked about before as well.
Now your ideal days can be your pretty good unit of
measure for a second cut at story points.
Now, days and hours, ideal days and hours, are well, real.
And what I'd like to look at next is how we would choose
an abstract Agile estimating scale.
Let's look at the next slide.
Using the right estimation value and scale.
Now in the previous modules,
our estimate values were typically in ideal time and in fact ideal hours.
But with Agile estimating, we typically use abstract values and let's see how.
A story point value is typically just an integer value.
But who decides the actual values and what do they mean?
So if a user story is deemed to be a value of say 5,
and another story is a 10, is this story twice the size?
Well, yes, it is.
We're just looking for relative value and relative size.
Typical Agile estimating,
using abstract values are based on a scale to determine the relative values.
And the one you see to the right,
is the Fibonacci Scale and I'm also going to recommend a
couple of these abstract estimation scales.
Exponential and Fibonacci.
And, you could use one of the others or you could certainly make up your own.
And the one to the right is the Fibonacci because it kind of models,
roughly, a Fibonacci numerical progression.
But 0 would mean, hey this piece of work doesn't take any time to do.
And on the other end of the scale is the infinity sign,
which means I have no idea how long it'll take or it's going to be a very,
very long time.
And you can see that maybe 8 and 5, 3, 2,
1, these are just different numbers, 5 is definitely bigger than 3,
but not quite as big as twice.
You want to make the scale something that causes some thinking to happen.
So you can kind of provide those particular values, relative to each other.
You're just trying to compare relative size of story points.
Now let's talk about the actual process on the next few slides.
When we are in a team setting and discussing an
estimate for a story point or feature,
here's the Agile approach for deriving an estimate.
Ask and listen to expert opinions.
Experts have experience, intuition, and just plain 'gut' feel.
So have the right experts in the room when you come up with your estimates.
Secondly, use analogies.
And what I mean by that is, in your discussions incorporate comparisons,
parallels, and contrasts,
with other situations or other requirements or other features.
And you might want to do feature breakdowns.
Split a feature into smaller, easier to understand,
and therefore easier to estimate.
Maybe a user story is a little more complex and you're going to need
to be able to break it down into maybe sub-stories,
two or three sub-stories.
And then provide estimates for each one of those.
So, an abstract estimation approach is called planning poker. And let's check it out on the next slide.